>> Steve: So this is Visual Studio
code you might have seen it before.
Some tasty notes as I jump in,
I mostly set all of my
environment back to like standard,
vanilla setup.
Some changes are like left
some extensions installed,
because when we get to exploring
extensions watching means all
of them one by one seemed terrible, right?
So some of them are installed,
but other than that,
I wiped away all of my key bindings,
all of my snippets, everything.
So I'm hopefully starting as close
to a tabla rasa as anyone else.
You do not need to do the same, but
I do because I'm the one teaching.
So I've got the examples open,
but let's say that you don't.
There are a number of ways
to go about doing it.
One is to go to the file menu,
find open, I have never done this.
There's a lot of things we
were talking about today,
which is it's a thing that you can
do that I have never done why?
Not totally sure it seems like
a totally reasonable thing to do.
The other option is you can go ahead and
there is a ability if you
hit Command-Shift-P or
Control-Shift-P, because
if I say Control or
Command, if you are on Windows, swap it.
Unless I'm very explicit
that I really meant control.
Then we'll talk about later but we will
talk a little bit more about the command
palette in a second, but
the command palette is your best friend.
But there is something fun in here
that if you have not done this before,
you should definitely look at doing,
which is this install code command in your
path and
this will install a little binary.
Well, it's technically already
installed it'll put in your path.
That will let you go navigate
around your terminal, and then you
can type code dot or code a given folder,
and it will open that folder in VS Code.
So like, anywhere you are on the command
line, you can type in code dot for
the current folder, if you wanna open a
different folder, what have you so on and
so forth.
We'll be doing both today,
because, like, in the beginning,
I'm just gonna start in the main repo.
But like, as you can tell,
if you download the repo,
it's a bunch of little smaller projects.
Sometimes we will laser focus
into one of those and so
we'll kind of navigate brigade up,
down and around.
But I've already installed this otherwise,
if that's not working for
you for some reason,
open will always also work.
But like I said, 99.99999% of the time
I will usually use the command line,
navigate there and
then open it in VS Code.
But upon doing that, we should be welcomed
by this beautiful, lovely, empty editor.
Some things probably need no introduction.
Over here we have like
the files in the directory,
obviously a full file tree
of everything in there.
This is kind of the activity bar along the
side where you'll see your file explorer,
the ability to search across the entire
project, some source control,
this ability to run and debug things.
Extensions, and this is where it gets
a little squirrelly which is depending on
the extensions other
stuff might appear here.
Like we have some integration
with various testing tools.
In this case, I do have Github actions
in here, Github Pull Request, and
this little AI toolkit, which we'll
talk about later, cuz that's very cool.
You've got a status bar down here,
which will kind of show you the different
kind of file type that you might be
working with, as well as some other
fun little things down here as well.
When something turns bright red, pay
attention to it but generally speaking,
it's subtle for a reason.
If you ever forget the command palettes,
keystroke,
which is Command+Shift+P,
which will probably get worn out on
your keyboard by the end of day,
you can also just click here too.
One of the things I wanna point out,
and we'll see this over and
over and over and over again,
is if anything has a key binding,
you will see it in the command palette.
The practice that I want
to instill in you right
now is any time today,
in the future, whenever,
you catch yourself doing
something somewhat tedious.
Pause, hit Cmd+Shift+P, and
just search to see if there's an option
to do it a little bit easier.
Maybe it has a key binding,
maybe it doesn't,
we'll figure out how to give it one if
you want to so on and so forth, right?
Because we will talk about some
of the keyboard shortcuts.
I will tell you them, I will do stuff with
my hands to make them happen on my screen.
Will you memorize all of them
the very first time I say a keyboard
shortcut out loud?
No right the kind of the best
way to do it is to and again,
install the habit right now, of like, if
you catch yourself doing something where.
There's I think a lot of vim users want to
talk about the fact that every time you
reach for the mouse,
it's like a drainage your productivity.
I understand where my track pad is in
relation to my keyboard that it's not that
big a deal these days, but
I think the idea is still there, right?
Because, like, if you find yourself,
I wanna jump to other editor pane,
or, I wanna jump over to search, or
something along those lines, right?
Now installing the like feeling
of pausing, thinking about it,
just even sometimes going into the command
palette, because there's also,
like a lot of little things that maybe
you didn't even know were in there.
And some of them will only be important to
you if you find yourself doing them right?
The other way to find out some keystrokes
sometimes is if you hover over stuff,
sometimes they will be
revealed to you right?
So that's how you switch from the explorer
to search is hovering over these
various things and seeing what the various
keyboard shortcuts are in this case.
But like I said, we've got like a little,
there's a little folder in
here called playground,
which is a very, very exciting file.
He says, thinking he
understands alphabetical order.
And there's some little stuff in here,
we can put this back in a little bit but
there are lots of little things.
>> Steve: You can say apple,
carrot, grape, banana.
You could select all these things unless
I wanna sort them ascendingly, right?
I could look up how to do that,
I could do it by hand, or
I can hit Command+Shift+P
just type in sort and
see I've got sort lines ascending,
sort lines descending.
Great, awesome, pick that and
it'll just do it.
So anytime you find yourself pausing and
thinking, stop, just type the thing into
the command palette for a second,
just see if it's there already.
If not, we'll explore extensions, we'll
talk about all sorts of other stuff and
key bindings and snippets.
But step one, annoying thing that I was
about to break my train of thought and
stop thinking big brain thoughts to do,
pause, Command, Shift,
fee, see if there's an option, right?
There's all sorts of things from like
sorting lines to removing duplicates,
so on and so forth.
So that's kind of the like subtle
subconscious practice that
we're gonna do through this entire time
together, which is at any given point.
And the nice part is,
I think like an hour ago,
Steve said something about
I can split editor panes.
I don't remember you
just Command+shift+P and
you type split, and
there's the keyboard shortcut.
Or other options that maybe you
didn't even know were there and
some of them don't have
keyboard shortcuts.
And sometimes they have
crazy ones like this, and
I'll talk about what that means
in a second, so on and so forth.
But you can kind of see all of these kind
of like fun things, like about like code
folding and what level you want to fold
everything to, so on and so forth.
Join lines great, anything you might need
to do, pause, stop, Command+Shift view, or
just click this thing up here, whatever.
But if you find yourself clicking it,
that's, again, the practice,
learn the shortcut, right?
You'll be happier, 'cause then like all
of a sudden it becomes muscle memory and
you find yourself standing in front of
a podium trying to explain in words stuff
that has become second nature to you.
And so that's kind of how
you build it up as well.